Data pipelines are commonly driven by schedules.
You've already seen this in Lesson 1 to some extent.
These schedules determine what data should be analyzed and when.
Often defined as cron jobs,
you've seen these schedules in previous courses and lessons.
Those jobs may have run once an hour,
once a day, and so on and so forth.
In this lecture, we'll be diving into how schedules can be used to enhance our analyses,
improve data quality, and speed up our pipelines.
So again, this schedule interval monthly which we used in
the previous exercises is an example of setting a schedule for a DAG.
Pipeline schedules can be used to enhance our analyses by allowing
us to make assumptions about the scope of the data we're analyzing.
What do I mean when I say the scope of the data?
Put simply, when a data pipeline is designed with a schedule in mind,
we can use the execution time of the pipeline run to analyze
data from the time period since this data pipeline last ran.
In a naive analysis with no scope,
we would analyze all the data at all times.
So in this diagram on the page,
you can see we have January through December
and our Redshift analysis looking at all of the data all at once.
This is what we might call a naive analysis.
If we have exactly one year's worth of data and we analyze that full dataset every time,
we're not taking advantage of schedules to partition our data properly.
In our final exercise in lesson 1,
we created an airflow DAG that built a station traffic table that contained
the analysis of all the 2018 data available for our bikeshare company.
Scope of this data was the entire dataset.
Again, this would be an example of a naive analysis.
One way you can prove this analysis would be to
change the scope of the analysis to a smaller time period.
In this example, the Redshift analysis is just looking at data for the month of January.
Next, the Redshift analysis could run again and look at February
and so on and so forth as the Redshift analysis progresses through its schedule.
Determining the appropriate time period for a schedule is
based on a number of factors which you need to consider as the pipeline designer.
First, what is the size of the data on average for a time period?
If an entire year's worth of data is only a few kilobytes or megabytes,
then perhaps it's fine to load the entire dataset.
But if an hour's worth of data is hundreds of megabytes or gigabytes,
or even terabytes, then likely you will
need to schedule your pipelines more frequently than that.
Secondly, how frequently is data arriving,
and how often does the analysis need to be performed?
Far base your company needs trick data
every hour that will be a driving factor in determining the schedule.
Alternatively, if we have to load hundreds of thousands of tiny records even if
they don't add up to much in terms of megabytes or gigabytes general memory,
the file access alone will slow down or
analysis and will likely want to run it more often.
Finally, we need to consider related datasets.
A good rule of thumb is that the frequency of a pipeline schedule should be
determined by the dataset and a pipeline which requires the most frequent analysis.
This isn't universally the case but it's a good starting assumption.
For example, if our trips data updates
every single hour but our bikeshare station table only updates once a quarter,
we'll probably want to run our trip analysis every hour and not
once a quarter based on our station data updating once a quarter.
Using schedules to select only data relevant to the time period of
the given pipeline execution can help improve the quality
and accuracy of the analyses performed by a pipeline.
For example, let's pretend we extended
our bike share traffic pipeline to include a marketing analysis component.
We might denote that by the marketing table you see on the slide here.
So we already have the trips table which we're familiar with.
This new marketing analysis operator will compare overall traffic year-over-year for
our bikeshare company and try to determine if
increased marketing spend led to an increase in ridership.
If we were to add an operator to our DAG to execute this task,
we would use schedules and templating to ensure that our analysis only
targets the data related to this time period and a set of data for all time.
So again, returning to the diagram,
we can see here that we're only looking at data for November.
In the trips table,
we can denote November data by this orange section on the table.
Likewise in the marketing table,
we want to just look at November data not all the data for all of marketing for all time.
Think for just a moment about what would happen
if I was looking at trips data for just November
by comparing that same dataset for just November
for the trips to marketing data of all time.
My analysis would be completely wrong.
Likewise, if I was looking at how marketing spend was performing for
just November and compare it to all trips data for the entirety of 2018,
my data's not going to be very good.
So scheduling is a critical feature to understand if
you want to have pipelines that produce meaningful results for your data consumers.
As I've already pointed out,
selecting data limited to a particular timeframe limits the size of that data.
This is a form of data partitioning which is
a concept we'll cover in depth in the next lecture.
Until then, suffice it to say that the last data we process,
the faster our pipeline will run.
For example, if we had millions of data points for all the bikeshare rides in 2018,
it's going to take longer to analyze those data points that it might to
analyze hundreds of thousands of data points for just a single month.
In this example, I made up a time.
I said, let's say it takes 12 hours to look at all the data for 2018.
But if I look at just the data for me,
it might take one-twelfth of that an hour.
This type of partitioning is really useful
in making our pipelines speedier with a site or scope.